## Week 2 Assignment

Before you begin, you should update your Docker image by running

```console
$ docker pull lcdm/info490
```

In fact, you should run this before every assignment to make sure that you have
the latest image.

The following exercise should be completed using Docker in an interactive
terminal mode with the data volume mounted, i.e.

```console
$ docker run -it --volumes-from my-data lcdm/info490 /bin/bash
```

### Part 1. Navigating through your file system.

0. As described in [Recoding your session](script.md), use `script` to start recording your session. 

1. Use `pwd` to output the path of the current working directory:

1. Use `cd` to change the working directory to the data directory, e.g. `/data`.

2. Use `ls` with `-F` option to list all files in the current directory. Here, the `-F` option classifies the files with different special character for different kinds of files. Note that there other many options that you can use with the `ls` command (and other Unix commands in general). Use `man ls` to see the options available.

3. Use `mkdir` to create a new directory. We will download and store the [airline on-time performance data](http://stat-computing.org/dataexpo/2009/the-data.html) in this directory, so name the directory `airline`. 

4. Use `cd` to change the working directory to your new directory.

5. Use `ls` with `-a` option to list all the files in the new directory.  The `-a` option shows all the hidden files in the directory. Note that with `-a` option you see '.' (current directory) and '..' (parent directory) even if there is no file in this directory.

6. The flight data is a large dataset, so we will concentrate on only one year, 2001. Use `wget` to download the 2001 flight data from http://stat-computing.org/dataexpo/2009/2001.csv.bz2 (80MB).

7. Use `ls` with `-l` option to list all the files in the directory. The `-l` option displays detailed information about files, including sizes.

### Part 2. Working with data file.

1. Since the downloaded file is compressed, we have to extract it. Use `bzip2` with `-d` option to extract the flight data file you downloaded in the previous section.

2. Use `ls` to display all the files in the directory, but this time with a combination of all three options, `-l`, `-a`, and `-F`.

 Hint: To show all files including the hidden files _and_ classify them using special characters, one would use a combination of two options `-a` and `-F`, or simply `-aF`.

3. Use `wc` to count the number of lines in the CSV (Comma Separated Values) file. The `-l` option prints the number of lines in a file. The output should be

 ```console
 5967781 2001.csv
 ```
 That means this data file has 5,967,781 rows.

4. Obviously, it would not be practical to print all 5,967,781 lines at once, so we will take a peek at how the first few lines of this file look like.  Use `head` to print the first 10 lines of the CSV file.

5. We also want to look at the end of the file, but a line of this file looks quite long. Use `tail` with `-n 5` option (or simply `-5`) to print only the last 5 lines of the file.

### Part 3. Using awk and sed to manipulate files.

1. You might have noticed there were very many columns when we used `head` and `tail` (29 columns if you count them; that's 5,967,781 rows times 29 columns). Let's grab only a few useful columns. The 2nd column is "Month"; the 3rd column is "DaysofMonth"; the 7th column is "ArrTime," the actual arrival time in local time; and the 18th columns is "Dest," the scheduled arrival time in local time. Use `awk` to extract columns 2, 3, 7, and 18, and output the result to another file.

 Hint 1: We have to tell `awk` that the columns are separated by commas (rather than whitespaces) by using the `-F ","` or simply `-F,` option. 

 Hint 2: After the options comes the _program_ part surrounded by single quotes. In this program part is the _pattern_ followed by the _action_ surrounded by curly brackets. That is, `awk` usage pattern is

 ```console
 $ awk [options] 'pattern{action}' file
 ```

 Note that the _pattern_ part is not necessary to do this problem.  Omitting the pattern part is also a valid `awk` usage pattern:

 ```console
 $ awk [options] '{action}' file
 ```
 Hint 3: I like to prepend the input file with `<` as this seems intuitive.  Although one may omit the optional `<` in front of the input file, one _must_ prepend the output file with `>` (because the input file is one of the arguments to `awk` while the output file is separate from the `awk` command).  In summary, to read columns 1, 2, and 3 of _file1.csv_ and save the output to a file named _file2.csv_, one would type

 ```console
 $ awk -F, '{print $1 "," $2 "," $3}' <file1.csv >file2.csv
 ```

2.  Use `head` to check if your output looks correct.  The output should be

 ```console
 Month,DayofMonth,ArrTime,Dest
 1,17,1931,CLT
 1,18,1938,CLT
 1,19,1957,CLT
 1,20,1944,CLT
 1,21,1954,CLT
 1,22,1931,CLT
 1,23,1924,CLT
 1,24,1922,CLT
 1,25,1925,CLT
 ```

3.  Use `sed` to change the commas in the CSV file to vertical bars.

 Hint: We use the substitute command `s/../../` to convert some pattern to another pattern.  To change commas to vertical bars, we would type

 ```console
 $ sed 's/,/|/' <week2.csv >week2.bsv
 ```

 Let's look at what the result looks like.

 ```console
 $ head week2.bsv
 Month|DayofMonth,ArrTime,Dest
 1|17,1931,CLT
 1|18,1938,CLT
 1|19,1957,CLT
 1|20,1944,CLT
 1|21,1954,CLT
 1|22,1931,CLT
 1|23,1924,CLT
 1|24,1922,CLT
 1|25,1925,CLT
 ```

 Note that only the first occurrences of the commas are changed on every line.  This behavior is typical of `sed`; it looks at one line at a time and changes only the first occurrence of the search word.  Here, we want to make changes on every occurrence instead of only the first.  The `g` (global) flag at the end tells `sed` to make changes for every occurrence.  That is, we have to use the command `s/../../g`.  
 
4. Use `head` to check if the final output of `sed` looks correct.  The output should be

 ```console
 Month|DayofMonth|ArrTime|Dest
 1|17|1931|CLT
 1|18|1938|CLT
 1|19|1957|CLT
 1|20|1944|CLT
 1|21|1954|CLT
 1|22|1931|CLT
 1|23|1924|CLT
 1|24|1922|CLT
 1|25|1925|CLT
 ```

### Part 4. Git

1. Use `cd` to change the working directory to the data directory, e.g. `/data`.

2. Use `git clone` to create a local copy of the course Git repository https://github.com/INFO490/spring2015. This will create a new directory `/data/spring2015`.

3. Use `cd` to change the working directory to `/data/spring2015`.

4. Use `ls` with `-la` option to list all files in the current directory.

5. Use `cd` to change the working directory to `/data/spring2015/week03`.

6. Use `ls` to list all files in the current directory.

7. Copy `hello.ipynb` file to the `/notebooks` directory.

8. Change the working directory to `/notebooks`.

9. Use `ls` to list all files in the current directory.

10. Finally, exit the `script` session by typing

```console
$ exit
```

If necessary, move the `typescript` file (the name of the file may be different
if you specified an argument to the `script` command) to the shared folder
(e.g. `/data`) so you can transfer it to your host machine. Now you can access
the file at `\\192.168.59.103` (The address may be different; see [Folder
Sharing](../week00/docker_foler_sharing.md)). Rename your file to _firstname-lastname-script.txt_ and upload it to Moodle.
