## Problem 6.1. Simple Statistics Using Pandas.

- A template file for this problem is [pdstats.ipynb](pdstats.ipynb).

In the previous weeks, we have seen different ways to read selected columns
  from the census CSV file and calculate basic statistics. In this problem,
  we will see how easy it is to perform the same task using Pandas.
  In particular, we will rewrite `get_stats()` function from
  [Problem 4.1](https://github.com/INFO490/spring2015/blob/master/week04/p1.md)
  and `get_column()` function from
  [Problem 4.2](https://github.com/INFO490/spring2015/blob/master/week04/p2.md).
  Remember, the purpose of this problem is to let you experience how easy it is
  to make a data table using Pandas. Don't overthink it.

### get\_column()

First, write a function named `get_column()` that takes a filename (string)
  and a column name (string), and returns a `pandas.DataFrame`.
  Remember that `encoding='latin-1'`.
  
Another useful tip: if you try to read the entire file,
  it will take a long time.
  Read in only one column by specifying the column you wish to read with the
  [`usecols`](http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/io.html#io-read-csv-table) option.
  Therefore, the `get_column` function should return a DataFrame with only **one** column.
  
With Pandas, the `get_column()` function can be written in one line.

### get\_stats()

Next, write a function named `get_stats()` that takes a `pandas.DataFrame`
  and a column name (string), and return the minimum, maximum, mean,
  and median (all floats) of the column.

### print\_stats()

We will use the same function from
  [Problem 4.1](https://github.com/INFO490/spring2015/blob/master/week04/p1.md)
  to print out the statistics in a nicley formatted manner.

- This function is already written for you. You don't have to write this
  function.

### Answers

In the end, you should get the following.

    Arrival delay, in minutes.
    Minimum: -1116
    Maximum: 1688
    Mean: 5.53
    Median: -2.00


    Departure delay, in minutes.
    Minimum: -204
    Maximum: 1692
    Mean: 8.15
    Median: 0.00

    Distance, in miles.
    Minimum: 21
    Maximum: 4962
    Mean: 733.03
    Median: 571.00
