### Problem 4.2. Simple Statistics II.

- A template file for this problem is provided: [stats2.ipynb](stats2.ipynb)

This problem is a continuation of problem 4.1. Recall that you wrote a function named `get_stats()` that takes a list and returns a tuple of minimum, maximum, mean, and median. To use this function, you have to convert your IPython notebook to a regular `.py` file. One way to do this is to use the IPython `%%script%%` magic function; in an IPython notebook cell, type (assuming the filename of your IPython notebook from Problem 4.1 is `stats.ipynb`):

    %%bash
    ipython3 nbconvert --to python stats.ipynb

and press <kbd>shift</kbd> + <kbd>enter</kbd>. This will create a Python script
named `stats.py`.

(Note: If `ipython3 nbconvert` produces an error and says that there is no
module named `pygments`, you have to run `docker pull lcdm/info490` to download
the latest image. You also have to stop and remove the running notebook server,
and create a new notebook server with the latest image. Remember to back up
your notebooks before running a new notebook server, because removing a
container will erase all data in the container.)

We will import this as a module in `stats2.ipynb`:

```python
from stats import get_stats
```

### Function: get_stats()

We will use the function `get_stats()` to compute basic statistics of a number of columns from the arline performance dataset we downloaded in week 2. Namely, we will use the following columns:

- Column 15, "ArrDelay": arrival delay, in minutes,
- Column 16, "DepDelay": departure delay, in minutes, and
- Column 19, "Distance": distance, in miles. 

To extract these columns from the CSV file,

- Write a function named `get_column(filename, n, header = True)` that reads
  the `n`-th column from a file and returns a list of integers.

- You may assume that the column is made of integers.

- We will also use the optional argument `header` because the first line of
  our file lists the names of the columns, but we might want to turn this off
  to handle a file that doesn't have a header.

- Use a combination of `with` statement and `open()` function to open
  `filename` in the `get_column()` function.

  Tip: When I tried to use `open()` to read `2001.csv`, I had the
  following error:

        'utf-8' codec can't decode byte 0xe4 in position 343: invalid
        continuation byte

  You can avoid this error by using `encoding='latin-1'` option in `open()`.

- Skip the first line if the `header` parameter is `True`;
  do not skip if it's `False`.

- Some columns have missing values `'NA'`, and you need a way to handle these missing values. If the `n`-th column is missing, you should **not** include that column in `result`; that is, skip all rows with `'NA'`.  As a result, lists returned from different columns may have different lengths.

### Function: print_stats()

We also want to print out the results in a nicely formatted manner.

- The `print_stats(input_list, title = None)` function is already for you. You
don't have to write this function.

It takes a list of integers and prints out the basic statistics, e.g.

    >>> print_stats([1, 2, 3, 4, 5], title = 'Title')
    Title
    Minimum: 1
    Maximum: 5
    Mean: 3.0
    Median: 3.0

