## Problem 5.2. Distance vs. AirTime.

Using the 2001 airline on-time performance data `2001.csv`, make a scatter plot
 of distance vs. airtime.
 Submit your IPython notebook via Moodle as a
 `FirstName_LastName_distance_airtime.ipynb` file for both instructor and
 peer assessment. Here are some hints:

- You have to specify the encoding, e.g. `open(filename, encoding='latin-1')`.
- The column header for air time is `AirTime`.
- The column header for distance is `Distance`.
- There are missing values denoted by `NA`. You should not plot any data point
  that has `NA` in `AirTime` or `Distance` columns.
- There are various ways to extract the columns you want from a CSV file.
  To give you a few examples,
  - You can use `awk` to extract the columns, save it in a separate file,
    and load this file in your IPython notebook.
    But your IPython notebook must be **self-contained** so provide your
    `awk` command in a cell prepended with `!` or `%%bash` magic functions.
  - You can modify the `get_column()` function from
    [Problem
    4.2](https://github.com/info490/spring2015/blob/master/week04/p2.md).
    Note that you can't use the `get_column()` function without modification,
    because `AirTime` and `Distance` columns have `NA` values in different rows.    Again, your IPython notebooks should be self-contained, so provide
    your modified function in your notebook (rather than importing it as
    a module).
  - You can use the [`csv`
    module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html). Note that you still
    need to handle the missing values even with the `csv` module.
  - You can use
    [`numpy.genfromtxt()`](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/basics.io.genfromtxt.html) or
    [`numpy.loadtxt()`](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/generated/numpy.loadtxt.html).
    If you use these functions, be sure to specify the following options:
    `delimiter=','`, `skiprows=1`, 
    and

    ```python
    converters={13: lambda x: 0 if x == b'NA' else int(x),
                18: lambda x: 0 if x == b'NA' else int(x)}
    ```
    
    The above converter function will replace `NA` with 0. Therefore, you also
    need to remove all data points with 0, e.g.

    ```python
    mask = (airtime > 0) & (distance > 0)
    airtime = airtime[mask]
    distance = distance[mask]
    ```

- The `2001.csv` file has over 5 million rows. Trying to plot all 5 million
  points in one scatter plot will result in waiting forever to process the plot,
  an IPython notebook with a very large file size, and an extremely cluttered
  plot. You can prevent this by plotting every *n*-th point. Use 
  [Python's extended slicing](https://docs.python.org/3.4/reference/datamodel.html) or
  [Numpy's
  slicing](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/arrays.indexing.html),
  e.g. `array[::1000]` for every 1000-th point in the array.
- Always label your axes. Your figure should have a descriptive title, and
  also put your first and last name in the title.
- Common sense should tell you that `Distance` is a linear function of
  `AirTime`. If your scatter plot doesn't look like a line with a positive
  slope, check your code (check especially how you handled missing values
  `NA`).

