### Problem 7.2. Chi-Squared Test.

- The template for this problem is [chi2.ipynb](chi2.ipynb).
- When you are done, rename your IPython notebook to
  `FirstName_LastName_chi2.ipynb` and submit it via Moodle.
- In this problem, you will calculate the chi-squared statstiic and
  the p-value to accept or reject the hypothesis that
  the number of flight cancellations depends on the month of the year.

Suppose you are studying the number of flight cancellations
  at a small regional airport and observe the following pattern:
    
    January           23
    February          12
    March             10
    April             10
    May               13
    June               7
    July              12
    August            11
    September         22
    October            6
    November           6
    December          14

These were the actual 2001 flight cancellations at the Willard airport (CMI),
  which you should be able to check easily from `2001.csv`.
  It seems like there are a lot of cancellations in January and September,
  and fewer than average cancellations in June, October, and December.

- In this problem, we will compute the chi-squared statistic to test
  the hypothesis that the number of flight cancellations depends
  on the month of the year.

In other words, we will accept or reject the null hypothesis
  (the hypothesis that the fluctuations in flight cancellations is entirely
  due to random fluctuations) using the chi-squared test.

- We will also compute the corresponding p-value of this distribution.

For example, if the p-value is, say, 50%,
  then it means that there's a 50% chance and that the apparent pattern
  is due to chance.
  On the other hand, if the p-value is something small like 0.1%,
  then this pattern happens only one time in 1000 when
  the number of cancellations does not depend on the month of the year.

I summarized the number of flight cancellations in the following array:

```python
cancelled = np.array([23, 12, 10, 10, 13,  7, 12, 11, 22,  6,  6, 14])
```

I will break down each step in separate functions to make sure you know
  how to calculate the chi-squared statistic.
  But note that you would normally combine all the steps in a single function.
  Also note that there's a SciPy function that does this for you:
  [`scipy.stats.chisquare()`](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy-0.14.0/reference/generated/scipy.stats.chisquare.html).
  You may **not** use this function to write your code, but you can
  use it to check your answer.
       
The chi-squared test is covered in Section 7.7 of *Think Stats*.

First, we define the cells to be the twelve months of the year,
  i.e. January, February, ..., December.

### get\_expected()

Second, write a function named `get_expected()` that takes a Numpy array
  and returns a Numpy array with the number of flight cancellations
  expected under the *null hypothesis*.
  Under the null hypothesis, we expect a uniform distribution,
  i.e. the same number of flight cancellations in each month.
  However, we also want our function to handle different types of data,
  so do not simply add up all the numbers and divide by 12.
  Instead, you should use the calculate the total number of cancellations
  and divide it by the length of the input array.
  For example, if the input array is `np.array([1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0]`,
  the `get_expected()` should return `np.array([3.0, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0, 3.0])`.

### get\_diff()

Next, write a function named `get_diff()` that takes two Numpy arrays,
  an array of the observed values and an array of the expected values.
  For each cell, the function calculates the difference between the observed
  value *O* and the expected value *E*.
  Thus, it should return a Numpy array of *O* - *E*.

### get_chi2()

Next, write a function named `get_chi2()` that takes two Numpy arrays,
  an array of the difference between the observed values and the expected
  values and an array of the expected values.
  It should return a single float that represents the chi-squared statistic.

### get\_p\_value()

Finally, write a function named `get_p_value()` that takes two arguments,
  the chi-squared value (a float) and a degree of freedom (an int).
  The p-value can easily be calculated by using
  [scipy.stats.chi2.cdf()](http://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.stats.chi2.html).
  The p-value is given simply by 1 minus the CDF of the chi-squared distribution
  (See [Chi-squared distribution](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chi-squared_distribution)).
  When using `scipy.stats.chi2.cdf()`, you should specify the `df` option,
  which corresponds to the degrees of freedom.
  The [degrees of freedom](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Degrees_of_freedom_%28statistics%29)
  is the number of cells minus 1, which in our case is 11
  (the twelve months of the year minus 1).

When you run the following cell, 

```python
expected = get_expected(cancelled)
diff = get_diff(cancelled, expected)
chi2 = get_chi2(diff, expected)
p = get_p_value(chi2, len(expected) - 1)
print('The chi square value is {0:.1f} and the p-value is {1:.1e}.'.format(chi2, p_sp))
```

you should get

    The chi square value is 27.3 and the p-value is 4.2e-03.
        
That means there's a 0.4% chance that the observed pattern is due to chance.
  I think we can safely reject the null hypothesis.
